= simplificator-ruby-kiva

== What
This is a ruby wrapper for the kiva.org api.
See build.kiva.org for details.

== Status

Still work in progress, some tests are missing, documentation is quite weak.
All features (Loans, Lenders, Comments, ....) from kiva.org API are reflected.

== TODO

* Verify List Items limit (ids in queries)
* Verify params?

== Howto

include Kiva

Api.app_id = 'your api id here, not required but recommended, see build.kiva.org'
### Loans
## finding Loans by ID

#puts Loan.find(:id => 180009).terms
#puts Loan.find(:id => '180009, 180008').size
#puts Loan.find(:id => [180009, '180008']).size

## finding Loans by lender_id
#puts Loan.find(:lender_id => 'matt', :page => 1).inspect

## finding Loans
#puts Loan.find(:query => 'Chinchilla', :page => 1).inspect
#puts Loan.find(:partner_id => [150, 156, 188, 190, 120], :query => 'Vegetable', :status => :in_repayment, :page => 2).inspect

### Partners

#puts Partner.find().first.inspect
#puts Partner.find(:id => 1).inspect


### Lending Actions
#LendingAction.recent.first


### Journal Entries
#puts JournalEntry.find(:loan_id => 180009, :include_bulk => true, :page => 10).inspect
#puts Loan.find(:id => 180009).journal_entries(:include_bulk => true).first.comments
#puts Comment.find(:journal_entry_id => 28342).inspect


### Team
#puts Team.find(:id => 2).team_since
#puts Team.find(:shortname => 'buildkiva')
#puts Team.find(:id => 6341).lenders(:page => 1).inspect

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 pascalbetz. See LICENSE for details.
